---
layout: post
title: "Fail2ban"
description: ""
category: [fail2ban, security, sysops]
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}


# Install and configure Fail2ban

<http://www.fail2ban.org/>

<http://www.looke.ch/wp/list-based-permanent-bans-with-fail2ban>

<http://stuffphilwrites.com/2013/03/permanently-ban-repeat-offenders-fail2ban/>


As root,

    yum install fail2ban

# Commands

    fail2ban-client -d ==> dump configuration for debugging
    fail2ban-client start
    fail2ban-client status
    fail2ban-client reload

# default logging path

    /var/log/fail2ban.log

# How to unban ip

To know which ip   

    iptables -L -n
   
To know jail name

    fail2ban-client status

To unban ip

    fail2ban-client set JAIL-NAME unbanip BANED-IP


# Configuration

    vi /etc/fail2ban/jail.d/00-systemd.conf

    [DEFAULT]
    backend=systemd

    cd /etc/fail2ban
    cp jail.conf jail.local
    vi jail.local

    [sshd]
    enabled = true
    banaction = iptables-multiport


    [DEFAULT]
    bantime  = 72000
    backend = systemd


    vi /etc/fail2ban/fail2ban.conf

    # Fail2Ban main configuration file
    #
    # Comments: use '#' for comment lines and ';' (following a space) for inline comments
    #
    # Changes:  in most of the cases you should not modify this
    #           file, but provide customizations in fail2ban.local file, e.g.:
    #
    # [Definition]
    # loglevel = DEBUG
    #

    [Definition]

    # Option: loglevel
    # Notes.: Set the log level output.
    #         CRITICAL
    #         ERROR
    #         WARNING
    #         NOTICE
    #         INFO
    #         DEBUG
    # Values: [ LEVEL ]  Default: ERROR
    #
    loglevel = INFO

    # Option: logtarget
    # Notes.: Set the log target. This could be a file, SYSLOG, STDERR or STDOUT.
    #         Only one log target can be specified.
    #         If you change logtarget from the default value and you are
    #         using logrotate -- also adjust or disable rotation in the
    #         corresponding configuration file
    #         (e.g. /etc/logrotate.d/fail2ban on Debian systems)
    # Values: [ STDOUT | STDERR | SYSLOG | FILE ]  Default: STDERR
    #
    logtarget = /var/log/fail2ban.log

    # Option: syslogsocket
    # Notes: Set the syslog socket file. Only used when logtarget is SYSLOG
    #        auto uses platform.system() to determine predefined paths
    # Values: [ auto | FILE ]  Default: auto
    syslogsocket = auto

    # Option: socket
    # Notes.: Set the socket file. This is used to communicate with the daemon. Do
    #         not remove this file when Fail2ban runs. It will not be possible to
    #         communicate with the server afterwards.
    # Values: [ FILE ]  Default: /var/run/fail2ban/fail2ban.sock
    #
    socket = /var/run/fail2ban/fail2ban.sock

    # Option: pidfile
    # Notes.: Set the PID file. This is used to store the process ID of the
    #         fail2ban server.
    # Values: [ FILE ]  Default: /var/run/fail2ban/fail2ban.pid
    #
    pidfile = /var/run/fail2ban/fail2ban.pid

    # Options: dbfile
    # Notes.: Set the file for the fail2ban persistent data to be stored.
    #         A value of ":memory:" means database is only stored in memory
    #         and data is lost when fail2ban is stopped.
    #         A value of "None" disables the database.
    # Values: [ None :memory: FILE ] Default: /var/lib/fail2ban/fail2ban.sqlite3
    dbfile = /var/lib/fail2ban/fail2ban.sqlite3

    # Options: dbpurgeage
    # Notes.: Sets age at which bans should be purged from the database
    # Values: [ SECONDS ] Default: 86400 (24hours)
    dbpurgeage = 86400

Add from here

    # Option: background.
    # Notes.: start fail2ban as a daemon. Output is redirect to logfile..
    # Values: [true | false] Default: false.
    #.
    background = true

    # Option: maxretry.
    # Notes.: number of retrys before IP gets banned..
    # Values: NUM Default: 3.
    #.
    maxretry = 3

    # Option: bantime.
    # Notes.: number of seconds an IP will be banned..
    # Values: NUM Default: 600.
    #.
    bantime = 36000

    # Option: cmdstart.
    # Notes.: command executed once at the start of Fail2Ban.
    # Values: CMD Default:.
    #.
    cmdstart = echo "Se ha iniciado fail2ban" | mail -s "Fail2ban" 67webs@gmail.com..

    # Option: cmdend.
    # Notes.: command executed once at the end of Fail2Ban.
    # Values: CMD Default:.
    #.
    cmdend = echo "Se ha detenido fail2ban" | mail -s "Fail2ban" 67webs@gmail.com<

    [MAIL]

    # Option: enabled.
    # Notes.: enable mail notification when banning an IP address..
    # Values: [true | false] Default: false.
    #.
    enabled = true

    # Option: host.
    # Notes.: host running the mail server..
    # Values: STR Default: localhost.
    #.
    host = smtp.gmail.com

    # Option: port.
    # Notes.: port of the mail server..
    # Values: INT Default: 25.
    #.
    port = 587

    # Option: from.
    # Notes.: e-mail address of the sender..
    # Values: MAIL Default: fail2ban.
    #.
    from = fail2ban

    # Option: to.
    # Notes.: e-mail addresses of the receiver. Addresses are space.
    # separated..
    # Values: MAIL Default: root.
    #.
    to = 67webs@gmail.com

    # Option: subject.
    # Notes.: subject of the e-mail..
    # Tags: <ip> IP address.
    # <failures> number of failures.
    # <failtime> unix timestamp of the last failure.
    # Values: TEXT Default: [Fail2Ban] Banned <ip>.
    #.
    subject = [Fail2Ban] Se ha baneado a <ip>..

    # Option: message.
    # Notes.: message of the e-mail..
    # Tags: <ip> IP address.
    # <failures> number of failures.
    # <failtime> unix timestamp of the last failure
    # <br> new line.
    # Values: TEXT Default: .
    #.
    message = La ip <ip> ha sido baneada por Fail2Ban despues de <failures> intentos fallidos...

    [SSH]

    # Option: enabled
    # Notes.: enable monitoring for this section.
    # Values: [true | false] Default: true
    #
    enabled = true

    # Option: logfile
    # Notes.: logfile to monitor.
    # Values: FILE Default: /var/log/secure
    #
    #logfile = /var/log/ssh

    # Option: fwbanrule
    # Notes.: command executed when banning an IP. Take care that the
    # command is executed with Fail2Ban user rights.
    # Tags: <ip> IP address
    # <failures> number of failures
    # <failtime> unix timestamp of the last failure
    # <bantime> unix timestamp of the ban time
    # Values: CMD
    # Default: iptables -I INPUT 1 -i eth0 -s <ip> -j DROP
    #
    fwban = iptables -I INPUT -s <ip> -j DROP

    # Option: fwunbanrule
    # Notes.: command executed when unbanning an IP. Take care that the
    # command is executed with Fail2Ban user rights.
    # Tags: <ip> IP address
    # <bantime> unix timestamp of the ban time
    # <unbantime> unix timestamp of the unban time
    # Values: CMD
    # Default: iptables -D INPUT -i eth0 -s <ip> -j DROP
    #
    fwunban = iptables -D INPUT -s <ip> -j DROP

    # Option: failregex
    # Notes.: regex to match the password failures messages in the logfile.
    # Values: TEXT Default: Authentication failure|Failed password|Invalid user
    #
    failregex = Authentication failure|Failed password|Invalid user



# RPM resource config(fail2ban-systemd)
<http://rpmfind.net/linux/rpm2html/search.php?query=config%28fail2ban-systemd%29&submit=Search+...&system=&arch=>

    yum install ftp://rpmfind.net/linux/fedora/linux/updates/21/x86_64/f/fail2ban-systemd-0.9.2-1.fc21.noarch.rpm
    ==> ... Installing : fail2ban-systemd-0.9.2-1.fc21.noarch
    ==> warning: /etc/fail2ban/jail.d/00-systemd.conf created as /etc/fail2ban/jail.d/00-systemd.conf.rpmnew

This file contains

    [DEFAULT]
    backend=systemd

